README.md, before:

# MEV Inspect

A JS port of `mev-inspect-py` optimised for ease of use.

## Motivation

While mev-inspect-py is great, I believe that there are a few changes can be made to make historical MEV data more accessible. Here are some defining decisions for this port:

- Written in Typescript: easier to run in browser/node, while keeping the code type-safe
- Infra layer decoupling: message query, caching, and persistence layers can be added independenty when/if needed
- Pricing data decoupling: to calculate profit and cost in USD, a pricing provider of your choice can be used
- Single transaction inspection: while missing some types of MEV, this is helpful for quick transaction review
- Using logs instead of call traces: any historical node would work

Other, less fundamental, changes include:

- Fork support (e.g. Sushiswap)
- Multichain support
- Abilitiy to "bring your own transaction receipts" (e.g. via Alchemy)

## API

- Inspector
  - constructor(chainId, provider)
  - tx(hash): processes a single transaction given hash
  - block(number): processes a single block given number
  - receipts(receipts): processes an arbitrary amount of transaction receipts
- getBlock(mev): get MEV block number
- getTransaction(mev): get MEV transaction hash
- getArbitrages(mevList): filter out non-arbitrage MEV
- getLiquidations(mevList): filter out non-liquidation MEV
- getSandwiches(mevList): filter out non-sandwich MEV
- getJitSandwiches(mevList): filter out non-JIT liquidity sandwich MEV
- getNftArbitrages(mevList): filter out non-NFT arbitrage MEV

A common data flow is to first fetch all the MEV using any of the Inspector method, then filter it by type using `getArbitrages`, etc, and finally process each type of MEV separately

## Usage

> This package uses [BigInt](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt). If you use a bundler, you may want to set the build target to `es2020`.

> This package is a pure ESM package. Follow [this guide](https://gist.github.com/sindresorhus/a39789f98801d908bbc7ff3ecc99d99c) for more info.

```bash
npm i mev-inspect
```

```ts
import { ethers } from 'ethers';
import { Inspector } from 'mev-inspect';

const arbitrageTx =
  '0x06387618ee3752bed447f192802895921a7d45a60875927adfedc93a68bcbe05';
const key = process.env.PROVIDER_KEY;
const provider = new ethers.providers.AlchemyProvider(1, key);
const inspector = new Inspector(1, provider);
const txMev = await inspector.tx(arbitrageTx);
console.log(txMev);
```

For more examlples, see [`examples`](./examples/).

## Support

### MEV type

- Arbitrage
- Liquidations
- Sandwiches
- JIT liquidity sandwiches
- NFT arbitrage

### Chains

- Ethereum
- Polygon
- Arbitrum
- Optimism
- Avalanche

### Protocols

- Swaps: Uniswap V2/V3 (+ forks), Balancer V1/V2, Curve V1/V2, 0x V3/V4, Bancor V2/V3
- Lending: Compound V2 (+ forks), Aave V1/V2/V3
- NFT swaps: Opensea (Seaport), LooksRare, Sudoswap, X2Y2

## How it works

It starts by fetching all event logs for a given transaction or block. Then, it "sorts" logs based on their source and type. From those logs, it extracts swap data. It then analyzes the swaps to find arbitrage.

Commit message:

Add a note about using ethers v6 to README

README.md, after:

# MEV Inspect

A JS port of `mev-inspect-py` optimised for ease of use.

## Motivation

While mev-inspect-py is great, I believe that there are a few changes can be made to make historical MEV data more accessible. Here are some defining decisions for this port:

- Written in Typescript: easier to run in browser/node, while keeping the code type-safe
- Infra layer decoupling: message query, caching, and persistence layers can be added independenty when/if needed
- Pricing data decoupling: to calculate profit and cost in USD, a pricing provider of your choice can be used
- Single transaction inspection: while missing some types of MEV, this is helpful for quick transaction review
- Using logs instead of call traces: any historical node would work

Other, less fundamental, changes include:

- Fork support (e.g. Sushiswap)
- Multichain support
- Abilitiy to "bring your own transaction receipts" (e.g. via Alchemy)

## API

- Inspector
  - constructor(chainId, provider)
  - tx(hash): processes a single transaction given hash
  - block(number): processes a single block given number
  - receipts(receipts): processes an arbitrary amount of transaction receipts
- getBlock(mev): get MEV block number
- getTransaction(mev): get MEV transaction hash
- getArbitrages(mevList): filter out non-arbitrage MEV
- getLiquidations(mevList): filter out non-liquidation MEV
- getSandwiches(mevList): filter out non-sandwich MEV
- getJitSandwiches(mevList): filter out non-JIT liquidity sandwich MEV
- getNftArbitrages(mevList): filter out non-NFT arbitrage MEV

A common data flow is to first fetch all the MEV using any of the Inspector method, then filter it by type using `getArbitrages`, etc, and finally process each type of MEV separately

## Usage

> This package requires ethers V6. If you use ethers V5, you need to use mev-inspect V3.

> This package uses [BigInt](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt). If you use a bundler, you may want to set the build target to `es2020`.

> This package is a pure ESM package. Follow [this guide](https://gist.github.com/sindresorhus/a39789f98801d908bbc7ff3ecc99d99c) for more info.

```bash
npm i mev-inspect
```

```ts
import { ethers } from 'ethers';
import { Inspector } from 'mev-inspect';

const arbitrageTx =
  '0x06387618ee3752bed447f192802895921a7d45a60875927adfedc93a68bcbe05';
const key = process.env.PROVIDER_KEY;
const provider = new ethers.providers.AlchemyProvider(1, key);
const inspector = new Inspector(1, provider);
const txMev = await inspector.tx(arbitrageTx);
console.log(txMev);
```

For more examlples, see [`examples`](./examples/).

## Support

### MEV type

- Arbitrage
- Liquidations
- Sandwiches
- JIT liquidity sandwiches
- NFT arbitrage

### Chains

- Ethereum
- Polygon
- Arbitrum
- Optimism
- Avalanche

### Protocols

- Swaps: Uniswap V2/V3 (+ forks), Balancer V1/V2, Curve V1/V2, 0x V3/V4, Bancor V2/V3
- Lending: Compound V2 (+ forks), Aave V1/V2/V3
- NFT swaps: Opensea (Seaport), LooksRare, Sudoswap, X2Y2

## How it works

It starts by fetching all event logs for a given transaction or block. Then, it "sorts" logs based on their source and type. From those logs, it extracts swap data. It then analyzes the swaps to find arbitrage.
